1 What is a Firewall and why is it used?
A Firewall is a network security system set on the boundaries of the system/network that monitors and controls network traffic. Firewalls are mainly used to protect the system/network from viruses, worms, malware, etc. Firewalls can also be to prevent remote access and content filtering.


2 What is the difference between IDS and IPS?
IDS is Intrusion Detection System and it only detects intrusions and the administrator has to take care of preventing the intrusion. Whereas, in IPS i.e., Intrusion Prevention System, the system detects the intrusion and also takes actions to prevent the intrusion.

 3 HIDS is set up on a particular host/device. It monitors the traffic of a particular device and suspicious system activities. On the other hand, NIDS is set up on a network. It monitors traffic of all device of the network.

4. What is a three-way handshake?
A three-way handshake is a method used in a TCP/IP network to create a connection between a host and a client. It’s called a three-way handshake because it is a three-step method in which the client and server exchanges packets. The three steps are as follows:

The client sends a SYN(Synchronize) packet to the server check if the server is up or has open ports
The server sends SYN-ACK packet to the client if it has open ports
The client acknowledges this and sends an ACK(Acknowledgment) packet back to the server.

5.How is Encryption different from Hashing?
Both Encryption and Hashing are used to convert readable data into an unreadable format. The difference is that the encrypted data can be converted back to original data by the process of decryption but the hashed data cannot be converted back to original data.

33. What are salted hashes?
Salt is a random data. When a properly protected password system receives a new password, it creates a hash value of that password, a random salt value, and then the combined value is stored in its database. This helps to defend against dictionary attacks and known hash attacks.

Example: If someone uses the same password on two different systems and they are being used using the same hashing algorithm, the hash value would be same, however, if even one of the system uses salt with the hashes, the value will be different.


** Confidentiality
The information should be accessible and readable only to authorized personnel. It should not be accessible by unauthorized personnel. The information should be strongly encrypted just in case someone uses hacking to access the data so that even if the data is accessed, it is not readable or understandable.

** Integrity
Making sure the data has not been modified by an unauthorized entity. Integrity ensures that data is not corrupted or modified by unauthorized personnel. If an authorized individual/system is trying to modify the data and the modification wasn’t successful, then the data should be reversed back and should not be corrupted.

** Availability
The data should be available to the user whenever the user requires it. Maintaining of Hardware, upgrading regularly, Data Backups and Recovery, Network Bottlenecks should be taken care of.

6. What are the response codes that can be received from a Web Application?
1xx – Informational responses
2xx – Success
3xx – Redirection
4xx – Client-side error
5xx – Server-side error


19. What are the different layers of the OSI model?
An OSI model is a reference model for how applications communicate over a network. The purpose of an OSI reference is to guide vendors and developers so the digital communication products and software programs can interoperate.
(vii) Physical Layer: Responsible for transmission of digital data from sender to receiver through the communication media,

(vi) Data Link Layer: Handles the movement of data to and from the physical link. It is also responsible for encoding and decoding of data bits.

(v) Network Layer: Responsible for packet forwarding and providing routing paths for network communication.

(iv) Transport Layer: Responsible for end-to-end communication over the network. It splits the data from the above layer and passes it to the Network Layer and then ensures that all the data has successfully reached at the receiver’s end.

(iii) Session Layer: Controls connection between the sender and the receiver. It is responsible for starting, ending, and managing the session and establishing, maintaining and synchronizing interaction between the sender and the receiver.

(ii) Presentation Layer: It deals with presenting the data in a proper format and data structure instead of sending raw datagrams or packets.

(i) Application Layer: It provides an interface between the application and the network. It focuses on process-to-process communication and provides a communication interface.

39. Explain Phishing and how to prevent it?
Phishing is a Cyberattack in which a hacker disguises as a trustworthy person or business and attempt to steal sensitive financial or personal information through fraudulent email or instant message.
 creat a instagram phising link and send the target. 
You can prevent Phishing attacks by using the following practices:

Don’t enter sensitive information in the webpages that you don’t trust
Verify the site’s security
Use Firewalls
Use AntiVirus Software that has Internet Security
Use Anti-Phishing Toolbar


